# Carbon footprint tracking and carbon emission prediction using AI models

### Abstract
Carbon dioxide emission has emerged as the epitome of a crunch problem in this 21st century, and its effect on global temperature rise and climate change implicates socio-economic activities worldwide. In India, carbon dioxide emission has reached 1.80 tonnes per capita, which is posing a threat to living creatures and ecosystems. In view of the problem posed by carbon dioxide emission in everyday life, The research focused on developing a chatbot integrated with a carbon footprint calculator and a carbon emission prediction model. The research article is divided into 2 phases, the first phase uses a Carbon Footprint Prediction Model, which has the capacity to estimate them up to the next 6 years. The predictive model will utilize techniques like autoregressive integrated moving average, seasonal autoregressive integrated moving average, simple exponential smoothing autoregression, Holt-Winters models for nonstationary data, and generate a forecast against trends in historical emissions data. Arima has given the highest accuracy of 99.2% followed by Sarimax and Holt-Winters with 99.02% and 98.73% accuracy respectively. The predictive model of Meta called Prophet predicted with an accuracy of 96.40%. At last the Simple Exponential Smoothing model gave us the accuracy of 84.20% which was the least among all the models.

Our second phase proves to be very innovative as it is an interactive platform where individuals can calculate their carbon emissions with some real time data collected. The chatbot asks the user for real-time data related to his or her habits—transportation, energy usage, eating habits, and other such things—computes a person's carbon footprint, and gives insights into it. Further, it will also give practical tips and recommendations on how one can reduce carbon emissions so he or she can live a more sustainable life.
